Wire: Bloomberg News (BN) Date: Sep 6 2000  12:02:14
Merrill Starts Fixed-Income Index to Track $13 Trillion in Debt


     New York, Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Merrill Lynch & Co. started
a fixed-income index based on more than $13 trillion of investment-
grade debt to help money managers evaluate major credit markets
worldwide.
     Merrill also launched two other indexes that track a smaller
universe of bonds than the Global Broad Market Index, which covers
14,000 securities around the world. The index aims to provide a
framework for tracking major credit markets in the U.S., Canada,
Europe, Japan and Australia.
     More than three years of daily historical data for the
largest investment-grade credit markets was assembled to create
the index, the bank said.
     ``Global fixed-income investors are increasingly looking to
the credit markets as a key source of incremental return,'' said
Phil Galdi, managing director of Merrill's fixed-income
quantitative analysis and portfolio strategy group. ``As credit
begins to consume a larger portion of their holdings, the indices
also serve as a more representative standard against which to
measure performance.''
     The Global Large Cap Index captures 84 percent of
capitalization of the broad market index, tracking about 4,000 of
the largest bonds in the Global Broad Market Index. The Global
Broad Market Plus Index combines the Broad Market Index with an
extended set of smaller local currency sovereign markets.

--Walden Siew in the New York newsroom at (212) 893-5240 or at
wsiew@bloomberg.net/hl

Story Illustration: To access the Merrill Lynch Global Credit
Index, type GBMI <Index> <GO>; for the Global Large Cap Index,
type GLCI <Index> <GO>; and for the Global Broad Market Plus
Index, type GBMP <Index> <GO>.

Company news:


MER US <Equity>

NI BNK
NI FIN
NI SCR
NI COS
NI NDX
NI BON


-0- (BN ) Sep/06/2000 16:02 GMT

-----------------------------====================------------------------------
                     Copyright (c) 2020, Bloomberg, L. P.

################################ END OF STORY 1 ##############################

