Wire: Bloomberg News (BN) Date: Aug 7 2002  5:38:53

July Was Worst Month for Triple-B Bonds, Merrill Says (Update1)

     (Adds Standard & Poor's bond index in sixth paragraph.)

     London, Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Global corporate bonds with a
triple-B rating, the lowest of the investment-grade categories,
had their worst month ever in July, with losses double those of
the record set in June, according to research from Merrill Lynch.
     Credit downgrades helped persuade investors to shun corporate
debt, with 4.1 percent of issuers in the bank's Global Corporate
Index downgraded, representing $93 billion of debt, the bank said.
Many of the downgrades shunted issuers to junk status, with debt
worth $27 billion dropping below investment grade.
     ``As the corporate landscape gets murkier with each passing
day, the losses continue to mount,'' wrote Phil Galdi, managing
director of Merrill's fixed-income quantitative analysis and
portfolio strategy group. ``Not surprisingly, triple-B corporates
were the worst of the high-grade market.''
     Companies that dropped to junk this month include European
phone makers Alcatel SA and Ericsson AB, and media giant Vivendi
Universal SA. Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's cut
long-term ratings of 12 companies in the Bloomberg 500 stock index
in July, according to Bloomberg calculations. Only Italian bank
UniCredito Italiano SpA was upgraded in that index.

                              Concern

     Investors' concern is driving up yields as bond buyers demand
a bigger premium over government debt to take on the additional
risks of lending to companies, Merrill Lynch said. The average
spread of the bank's Global Large Cap Corporate Index struck an
all-time high in July, while triple-B spreads hit a record for a
second month, the bank said.
     S&P's index of the premium investment-grade corporate debt
pays over government securities shows the spreads are heading back
to the level they struck after Sept. 11. Investors demand on
average 2.52 percentage points more yield than government
securities to lend to companies, up from 1.95 percentage points in
June. Following the Sept. 11 attacks, that spread rose to a record
2.59 percentage points.
     ``Poor corporate earnings and a long and growing list of
accounting-related inquiries and admissions of understated
expenses (have) shaken confidence in both the equity and corporate
bond markets,'' Galdi wrote.
     Junk bonds were the worst performing of all corporate debt,
Merrill Lynch said. Its Global High Yield Index posted losses of
6.5 percent in July as investors shunned the riskiest assets.
     As investors cool toward corporate bonds and stocks, they are
favoring the relative safety of government debt, Merrill Lynch
said. That's driving down government bond yields to the lowest
they've in been in years.
     ``A flight to safe-haven assets has driven average yield of
the Global Government Index to within 6 basis points of its all-
time low,'' Merrill Lynch said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.
     U.S. two-year Treasury yields struck a record low of 1.86
percent this week amid expectations the Federal Reserve will cut
interest rates to bolster the faltering economic recovery.

--Alice James in the London newsroom, (44 20) 7330-7195, or
ajames@bloomberg.net. Editor: Provan.

Story illustration: Type {MER <GO>} to see Merrill Lynch's
research and bond indexes on Bloomberg. See {RATC <GO>} for recent
rating changes.

Company News:


UC IM <Equity>
MER US <Equity>
ERICB SS <Equity>
CGE FP <Equity>

Industry news:
NI BON
NI COR
NI CRA
NI EBN
NI EUB
NI FIN
NI CORPFIN
NI EUROPE
NI CRA
NI BND
NI BON
NI ECO
NI EMC
NI EUB
NI EUROPE
NI GBN
NI GER
NI GLT
NI GOV
NI NORTHAM
NI UK
NI UKECO
NI US
NI USB
NI HYL







#<789682.737600>#
-0- (BN ) Aug/07/2002  9:38 GMT

-----------------------------====================------------------------------
                     Copyright (c) 2020, Bloomberg, L. P.

################################ END OF STORY 1 ##############################

